---
title: "Notes: 17th Nov - 24th Nov"
date: 2019-11-25T12:13:32+05:30
description: "Know your value"
disqus: false
tags: [musings, weeknotes]
draft: false
---

### TL, DR;

#### Work things:
- Finished a feature that adds specific information at the point of object creation, rather than enriching the object later on in the pipeline.
- Sprint planning  → we are looking at splitting a monolithic application across two teams.
- Server response times in US were super slow  → Caching the slow to build data solved this.
- Continued AWS learning  → EC2, security groups and Elastic Block Storage (EBS).


#### General life things:
- Mentored at [Node Girls](https://nodegirls.com/) and spoke about psychological safety.
- Went to TWO museums over the weekend; [Vagina Museum](https://www.vaginamuseum.co.uk/) and the [Horniman Museum and Gardens](https://www.horniman.ac.uk/)

____________


### Message of the week
Know your value and get what you deserve.


### Who taught me something or really made me think this week?
> "Salary negotiations are just a game of chicken." 


I listened to someone talk about her recent experience with salary negotiations. She had 18 months experience as a software engineer and thought she'd get back into interviewing. She applied and interviewed for one job and ended up getting this job. 


She was stoked and actually quite content with the salary offered (15K more than her current salary), until her co-workers encourage her to ask for a higher salary. A bit of context, she describes herself as someone who uses a few too many exclaimation marks and apologises far too often. So the thought of asking for a higher salary scared her. But she took her colleagues' advice and replied to the email offer, which read something along the lines of 'I was expecting a range that was 20K higher than this offer.'


She had done her research into the company and what they pay their employees. The company was also operating in the USA, so she stated her salary should be equivalent to that of someone doing a simlar job living in the USA. The company responded asking for a phone call. She wanted to keep the company to email for as long as possible as she knew she would waver and yield too quickly over the phone. So she proposed a time at the end of the week, and continued to negotiate via email.


She pitched herself in these emails, stating that in her current role she is completing tasks that are above her official responsibilities and that she is able to take on a more challenging role (with appropriate compensation). After another day or two, the Engineering manager of the prospective new company asked to chat, without HR. She accepted but was apprehensive. She knew she had to say as little as possible and push through any silences. So she did just that. The only word she said during that phone call was, "Hello". The Engineering Manager on the other hand filled the silences with 'ums' and 'ahs'. Until eventually, he felt uncomfortable enough to give in.


She ended up getting a payrise of 35K. Yes 35K on top of what she was currently earning. All because she asked, persisted and knew her worth.


### What am I trying to work out?
Should I stay to get my Indefinite Leave to Remain (another 3 years), or move back to Australia before that time?

### How can I be better next week?
I want to challenge myself to trust myself a little more. I tend to doubt myself and my choices when it comes to work.
I have noticed that at work, I often have the answers and go down the correct path when solving a problem but I don't trust my skills enough to continue down that path.


### What am I looking forward to next week?
Learning a bunch of things at [The Future of Cybersecurity Conference](https://cybereurope.events/).

Getting stuck into learning about Databases on AWS (as I feel this is my weak area!).

A friend from Sydney (but currently living in Amsterdam) will be visiting.

A Thanksgiving meal with close friends.

<br>

#### #listening
[Missy Higgins - Any Day Now](https://open.spotify.com/track/4W7nrswLXJUBwQv6rsKDdy)


#### #reading
[The Unexpected Benefits of Pursuing A Passion Outside of Work](https://hbr.org/2019/11/the-unexpected-benefits-of-pursuing-a-passion-outside-of-work)


#### #watching
[Queer Eye: We're in Japan!](https://www.netflix.com/browse?jbv=81075744&jbp=0&jbr=2)