---
title: "Notes: 27th Oct - 2nd Nov"
date: 2019-11-03T12:13:32+05:30
description: "The importance of perspective"
disqus: false
tags: [musings, weeknotes]
draft: false
---

### TL, DR;

#### Work things:
- AWS Solutions Architect Certification study continues → databases are my weakness
- Encryption at rest: Research into encrypting data in S3 buckets and ran into the issues with preserving the 'last modified date' metadata when running
 
<p style="font-family:'PT Mono', monospace;color:#7CFC00;background-color:#2B2D2F;font-size:15px; text-align:center;"> aws s3 cp s3://encrypted-bucket s3://encrypted-bucket --recursive --sse </p>
 
 (any insight into this would be greatly appreciated).

- Completed stories to protect our application from XSS (reflected and stored).
- Carried on building a SSH monitoring application in Python.
- Had a discussion about balancing meetings with time coding. It's a balance between getting the work done and adding to the culture of your workplace.
- Participated in Design Thinking Workshops at work.



#### General life things:
- Saw [Hannah Gadsby's](https://hannahgadsby.com.au/) Douglas at the Southbank Centre.
- Phone was (almost) stolen.
- Flew to Sydney.
- Found a new favourite spot in Sydney.
- Oh and it was my birthday earlier in the week.

____________


### Message of the week
Remember the importance of perspective.

I was reminded that being able to take in someone else's perspective can help create an understanding and as a result resolve conflict and encourage empathy. 


### Who taught me something or really made me think this week?
The Design Thinking Workshops reminded me of how important it is to have various perspectives when looking at problems. We were a group of 12 people from across the company, it was interesting to hear from everyone and how a particular problem could be seen in so many different ways.
It was also an important exercise in teamwork and collaboration. A number of attendees at the workshop had never spoken to each other, despite being at the company for a number of years. The workshop was a great way to get to know people you wouldn't otherwise speak to in your work day.

Perspective was also central theme in Hannah Gadsby's Douglas. She has autism and reminds the audience of this within the first 10 minutes of the show. This is such an important part of her and how she makes sense of the world. It is her unique perspective on the world that has allowed her to connect stories and help us (the audience) better understand how people with autism may view the world differently. If you get a chance, grab yourself a ticket!


### What am I trying to work out?
I have started looking into the AWS Solutions Architect Certification. I use AWS in my day to day work so am somewhat familiar with the offerings, so before getting into watching videos and reading I completed an online exam simulation. I got 60% which isn't bad for a first try but also not enough (I am aiming for a consistent score of 95% in these exam simulators). This also helped me discover which areas I was really lacking, databases are my main weakness.

With this knowledge, I am trying to work out how I can fit the study into my daily schedule and the most efficient way for me to learn the required information.

Another thing I am trying to work out is using AWS Lambdas. I have built a Python application that pulls files from an S3 bucket (which holds our SSH logs), reads them, identifies and counts the frequency of malicious IPs. I currently run it from the command line but would like to get a lambda to run the code everytime a new file is uploaded into S3.
I've not really worked with AWS Lambdas before so this is a great learning opportunity.


### How can I be better next week?
Be mindful, enjoy the moment.

I'm going to be home (Sydney) next week and I would really like to be deliberate in being present.
My mind is difficult to settle. I tend to drift often, think about previous conversations, upcoming events, life admin, anticipating questions to ask. 

I want to bear witness to the moment. Observe it and name it. Take in the sights, sounds, smells and emotions and truly appreciate them.


### What am I looking forward to next week?
Time in Australia with family and friends, simple as that. I was last home in May 2018 so I'm looking forward to a break and quality time with those at home.

<br>

#### #listening
[Lizzo - Like A Girl](https://open.spotify.com/track/1Dd22oMwd0OlMYqRXGdObE?si=sOUXggh8Q6ii6QFQkLDbNA)

#### #reading
[Normal People by Sally Rooney](https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/592625/normal-people-by-sally-rooney/)


#### #watching
[Unbelieveable](https://www.netflix.com/title/80153467)