---
title: "CS50: Week One - C"
date: 2020-02-16T10:13:30+05:30
description: "An overview of Week 1 of the CS50 course"
tags: [cs50, study-notes]
disqus: false
---

<p>
Some notes from Week 1 of the CS50 course.
</p>

<style>
table {
  border-collapse: collapse;
  width: 100%;
}

td, th {
  border: 1px solid #dddddd;
  text-align: left;
  padding: 8px;
}

box {
  width: 300px;
  border: 2px solid red;
  padding: 8px;
  margin: 10px;
}
</style>

<h4>Data Types</h4>
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Data Type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`int`</td>
    <td>Used to store integers.Since integers take up 4 bytes of memory (32 bits)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`char`</td>
    <td>Stores single characters; takes up 1 byte. Single characters can be mapped along this range because of ASCII.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`float`</td>
    <td>Store variables with decimal points(i.e., real numbers). Take up 4 bytes of information. Though we know a decimal point can be within the range of 2 billion, we are still limited to its precision because of the length of the decimal part cannot approach infinity</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`double`</td>
    <td>Also store real numbers, but instead take up 8 bytes of memory,therefore allowing for more precision for the decimal values.</td>
  </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>`long`</td>
    <td>Integers with more bits, so they can count higher than an `int`</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`bool`</td>
    <td>Used for variables that will store a boolean value.  Capable of storing one of two values: true or false.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`string`</td>
    <td>Used for variables that will store a series of characters, usually called byprogrammers as strings.  They can includewords, sentences, paragraphs, and the likes.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

To create a variable, give it a type and then give it a name. If you wish to create multiple variables of the same type, specify the type once, and then list as many variables. 

In general, it’s good practice to only declare variables when you need them. You don’t need to create all the variables in the beginning of your program.


**Using a Variable**
<pre>int number;    // declaration</pre>
<pre>number = 12;   // assignment</pre>

If you are simultaneously declaring and assigning (also known as *initialising*), you can consolidate into one step:
<pre> int number = 12;  // initialisation </pre>
 


**Conditional Statements**
<pre>
if (boolean-expression)
{
    // Do something
}
</pre>

If the `boolean-expression` is true, all code within the curly braces will run from top to bottom.

If the expression is false, these lines will not execute.

<pre>
if (boolean-expression)
{
    // Do something
} else {
    // Do something
}
</pre>

If the `boolean-expression` is true, all code within the curly braces will run from top to bottom.

If the expression is false, the code in the second braces will execute.



<pre>
if (boolean-expression)
{
    // first branch
}
if (boolean-expression)
{
    // second branch
}
if (boolean-expression)
{
    // third branch
} else {
    // fourth branch
}
</pre>

You can create a chain of non-mutually exclusive statements. In this example, the third and fourth branches are mutually exculsive (the else binds to the closest if).

<br>

**Loops**

Loops allow your programs to execute lines of code repeatedly, saving you from needing to copy and paste or otherwise repeat lines of code.

<pre>
while (boolean-expression)
{
    // Do something
}
</pre>

If this is true the code will run *repeatedly* from top to bottom until the boolean-expression evaluates to false.

<pre>
do 
{
    // Do something
} while (boolean-expression)
</pre>
This executes all lines of code within the curly braces, and then if the boolean-expression is true will go back and repeat the process until the boolean-expression is false.


<pre>
for (int i = 0; i < 10; i++)
{
    // Do something
}
</pre>

For loops are used to repeat the body of the code a certain number of times, in this example 10 times. The parts of a for loop are:

 - A counter variable (here `i` is set).
 - A boolean expression (`i < 10`) if this is true the code will run. If it is false it will stop.
 - The counter variable is incremented (`i++`).


**Loops Summary**
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Type</th>
    <th>When to Use</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`while`</td>
    <td>Use when you want a loop to repeat for an unknown number of times or possibly not at all</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`do-while`</td>
    <td>Use when you want a loop to repeat for an unknown number of times but at least once</td>
  </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>`for`</td>
    <td>Use when you want a loop to repeat a discrete amount of times</td>
  </tr>
</table>
<br>

**Boolean Expressions**

Relational Operators:

<pre>
x < y       // less than
x <= y      // less than or equal to 
x > y       // greater than
x >= y      // greater than or equal to 
x == y      // equality
x != y      // inequality
</pre>


**Designing with Abstraction**

```
int main(void)
{
    printf("cough\n");
    printf("cough\n");
    printf("cough\n");
}

    // a little better design
int main(void)
{
    for (int i = 0; i < 3; i++)
    {
        printf("cough\n");
    }
}
```

The below exapmple uses *abstraction*:

```
void cough(void);

int main(void)
{
    for (int i = 0; i < 3; i++)
    {
        cough();
    }
}

    // Cough once
void cough(void)
{
    printf("cough\n");
}
```

Note how the `cough` function has been abstracted out of the main function.